i am kyle tut co-founder and ceo
of pinata and pinata is
the easiest way to use ipfs um we've
been around
since uh 2000 middle of 2018 late
2018. um and we actually got our start
uh with a pinning service because
my co-founder matt and i were building
blockchain applications mostly in the
ethereum space
um in 2017 2018
and you know we quickly realized that
a lot of data storage needed to take
place on ipfs
and we were running our own nodes at the
time and so we ended up just deciding
uh you know probably other people have
similar problems as us
so we'll just start spinning up ipfs
nodes
and seeing if people would be willing to
to pin on top of them so uh
you know at its core we're just a simple
pinning service
um you can come to us and put your pins
on top of us
and um you know obviously pay us
to make that happen
we really focus on being easy so if you
go to our service
we're pretty lightweight and simple our
api is easy
our user interface is extremely easy
not too complicated we don't add too
much to it
we make sure that we are trying to be as
fast as possible
and then reliable as well and just
trying to be up
and getting across the network as
quickly as possible with these pins
um is basically our our main
uh goals and main strategy as running as
a pinning service
um so the the types of people that use
us so since we've been around um for a
little while at least for a pinning
service obviously not as long as
in fiera but um we've had
a a bunch of different kinds of
applications come and build on top of us
because we did come from the ethereum
space and the ethereum community
we do have a lot of blockchain
applications specifically
ethereum if i were to give a number i
would say
90 of the blockchain applications
building on top of us
come from the ethereum space and that
includes things like dapps
uh daos dexes
pretty much any kind of blockchain
application you can think of has
used us or is using us and then as a
subset of that
there's also nfts or non-fungible tokens
which
is actually kind of going to be the
focus of my talk
and i'll explain those later and then
just traditional apps so static websites
i'm in kind of web 2 type
applications also build on top of us and
are trying to use
ipfs within their their application to
make it faster or better whatever the
case may be
so uh jumping into it um
the interesting thing that we've found
running our
our pinning service has been that we're
getting a lot of
nfts or non-fundable token applications
starting to use us and so for those that
aren't familiar with non-fundable tokens
they really became uh quite popular
quite
i guess famous uh when cryptokitties was
launched
which was a game a collectible game
where
you could mint or breed
crypto kitties and each kitty is
actually unique so the
the interesting thing about nfts
is that each nft itself
is unique and then they're non-divisible
so they're really really good at
representing assets whether they're
digital assets like a crypto kitty or
whether they're physical assets that are
represented by
some other data set they're really good
at representing
what the asset is and who actually owns
it
and they can really be broken down into
two sections
so you have the blockchain that the nft
is minted on
and blockchains are naturally very good
at
um kind of storing immutable data
forever but just small pieces of it um
because if you try to um you know
put a lot of data on blockchains it gets
it gets really really expensive really
really quickly
and so this is where um there's the off
chain storage
portion of uh nfts
and so the main problem
that nfts are running into right now is
the fact that the majority of the people
that are creating these nfts
are using traditional web 2
infrastructure so
a lot of these people whether they're
digital artists or game creators or
whatever the situation may be believe
that because they have a uh
nft that is sitting on a blockchain that
they're securing the asset
more than they traditionally would
however there's
you know there's a problem with that and
that is the fact that
they're using urls um to reference
uh the data underneath so as you can see
on my screen here
let's say we have a a png image that's
the
digital asset that was created by an
artist and it's this grayscale pinata
image right here
that creates a link and a url
and they usually embed that into the nft
the problem is is that obviously you can
change the underlying asset of that link
and so
you can imagine as a digital artist
whether you're
creating art or music or
a game or whatever the situation is
and you sell that piece of artwork to
somebody
they can't actually prove that the asset
is what it's supposed to be and so if if
you were to buy a piece of artwork
and maybe it's been sold three or four
times before before you
um and they swapped out the underlying
image
you'd be pretty upset about that
and you know it's fraudulent and there's
just a bunch of issues that come with
being able to swap out the underlying
asset itself
so luckily we have ipfs to come to the
rescue with content addressable data
where we're addressing uh the data based
on the data itself
um and is obviously commonly referred to
as content ids or cids
or hashes however you want to put it and
with that it kind of changes the
paradigm and it
introduces security um
and verifiability to uh the off chain
asset of the nft itself
so you can see here um we have the cid
of this grayscale pinata and that is
grayscale pinata and you embed that in
the nft
and then if that asset were to ever
change
obviously the cid would change itself so
uh as a buyer or seller doesn't really
matter of an nft
you can prove uh that the asset is what
it's supposed to be
um again just to reiterate over and over
again
with the url system you can change the
underlying asset
and the url stays the same with cids
that's not true if the asset changes the
cid changes
and that's kind of the paradigm shift
that a lot of people in the nft space
um are still learning but as soon as
they
grasp that concept it becomes very very
powerful for them
now uh jumping into the next problem
that
we've been running into and i think is
is very interesting
for a lot of people that are running
pinning services
or any kind of service using ipfs
is the question of who pays for the off
chain data
so typically what happens is
applications come to us and they will
say
or a digital artist whatever the
situation is
and they will say hey i want
to mint nfts um
and i want the off chain data associated
with it to be on ipfs
through pinata and i want it to persist
forever um and i
i don't want to pay for it is usually uh
where we end up going
in that conversation um and that's a
very difficult conversation that we've
ran into
for over a year now is kind of
trying to like make our way through um
what
is really being asked by the the user
there
what they want as an app developer
versus um
what their customers might want uh that
are buying the tokens and so
um i've been framing this
as a simple concept of
is da vinci responsible for the mona
lisa and so
what i mean by that is is da vinci
responsible for maintaining the mona
lisa
uh is the real question and the answer
to that is
of course not uh da vinci is no longer
with us
the painting is something like over 500
years old
um and the the person that or the
body that takes care of that painting
today is the louvre museum
right um and uh that makes a lot of
sense
in the way physical assets are
transferred
it would be kind of weird if you think
about it that da vinci would have to
think about pre-funding uh the mona lisa
for over 500 years to exist
and not transfer those costs to somebody
else whoever the next person is
that's going to actually own the asset
and so
um what we're kind of proposing that
the nft space does to make
both the nft buying and selling easier
as well as
um ipfs uh more integrated and more
popular within the space
um is proposing a way to transfer
uh the responsibility of who actually
has to make sure that the data is
is pinned on the ipfs network and so
the way this could work is that
you have a digital artist again they
create that digital
art piece and they put it up for sale on
a platform such as
openc which is kind of like a an ebay
for nfts
um out there and there's many others but
uh they're probably the biggest
and so you as the art seller uh put it
up there
and say hey um
i'm selling my uh my digital art piece
uh as soon as
i transfer the token from my wallet to
your wallet
you are now responsible for that pin and
making sure that it actually stays
on ipfs uh you know the buyer
immediately becomes responsible for the
data
now this is kind of an extreme view
uh and isn't very uh buyer friendly it's
certainly seller friendly
but you can imagine you might say hey
you have seven days
to figure out whether or not uh you're
actually going to pin the
the off chain asset that's on ipfs and
you could simply you know use pinata
or any other printing service to
actually pin that asset
the other way to think about it is
something we just called warranties
and if anybody has once we're through
this point if anybody has better ideas
of what to name this kind of concept of
as
is versus warranties uh totally open to
it but
um with warranties the seller actually
defines how long they will maintain the
um the data on ipfs and so with the
digital artist they might say hey you
know what
i'm going to create this digital art
piece um and when i sell you the token
i will also pay for three years of
the art piece living on ipfs
and then after that three years is up
whoever's owning the token at that time
needs to be the one that actually
figures out
uh whether or not they should be
storing or pinning that piece of content
this is a very simple way to think about
it but
you could also have an instance in that
where
you know the the creator sells the piece
of art
um they say it's three years uh that new
buyer only holds it for a year and then
they pass it on to the next person
and conveniently because you know that
cid um
isn't changing or if it does change you
know it you can trust the data itself
and ensure that the data hasn't changed
so it's a it's a pretty powerful way to
transfer
um the responsibility of who actually
needs to pin the data
another example would actually be uh
with something like gaming
um so there's a lot of games out there
that are using nfts
uh to represent game assets whether it's
a
you know a shield or any
piece of clothing any kind of gaming
assay you can think of
is represented also with an nft on a
blockchain
the game company might say hey
uh you know i'm going to support the
pinning of this data
uh for as long as i support the game so
maybe they support the game
with updates and things like that for
seven years um
after the seven years you as the owner
of that
asset now need to take responsibility
and pin it on
pinata or on uh you know your server or
whatever the situation is
to make sure that the asset exists and
if if you don't
then it ends up disappearing um
and this really starts to make a lot of
sense
once the assets um that are represented
by these nfts
are are really big and become really
really expensive right now they're
pretty
relatively cheap um to post but once the
data sets get
large that are being transferred by
tokens it becomes
you know pretty important and so
what we think would help out in the nft
space was
is just define who is responsible is it
the creator is it the digital artist
um that should be responsible for
the cost of hosting or pinning that
content forever
um is it the platform so there's
platforms out there
like open c or super rare mint base
i think or mintable something like that
where they
um they partner with creators and
mint this content should they be
responsible for the content forever
or should the buyer be responsible for
it and um
you know it's not uh one or the other uh
it's definitely a spectrum
of when it can transfer over between
creator platform buyer it could be all
three right um obviously with ipfs the
creator could pin it the platform could
pin it and the buyer can pin it and it's
um you know super redundant it's really
up to uh up to them
and one other way to think about it is
if you think about how
you know we buy things on physical
assets on ebay
let's say you know you have to you buy a
car on ebay
um there's a negotiation that happens
between the buyer and the seller of
hey i bought this car i'm in nebraska
and you're in california
i need to go all the way to california
to pick it up as is
so that's a common you know negotiation
between buyers and sellers
a similar thing needs to take place um
on who is actually responsible
for making sure that that content is
pinned on ipfs
so how do you transfer this
responsibility well with pinata it's
pretty simple we have a pin by hash
function
you can just go to that nft
find the the cid or the hash
take it and then pin it and then you can
ensure that it's
obviously pinned for as long as you
um own the own the token and you should
be
uh incentivized to actually want to care
about whatever that asset is
um and to wrap it up so why is this
important
um well it reduces friction um
so there's a there's this kind of gray
cloud
that we've felt that pinata hanging
around who's actually responsible
for the cost of storing stuff forever
and if you can easily transfer that cost
then it reduces the friction
um it reduces the costs for the creators
you know they they aren't always
responsible for it they don't have to
think about
you know how are they going to ensure
this um being around forever they can
they can pass to the past that to the
next person um
and and make sure that they get get it
as long as
they kind of predetermine um what
actually needs to happen
so it reduces friction on the the
blockchain side the token side
but then it also reduces friction on the
ipfs side
and allows ipfs to have another kind of
market that it can go after
to you know obviously increase the usage
of ipfs
and ipfs is is really well positioned
for this obviously because of
the content addressable data and your
ability to verify
and secure the data itself with the cids
so
that's that's always all i got uh happy
pinning and would love to take any
any questions
this is awesome kyle you've clearly
inspired a ton of people in the chat
you're blowing everyone's minds
about like awesome integrations around
dynamically detecting and persisting
nfts in your account either through the
um
the marketplace where you're storing
these nfts or your wallet
or um other ways of dynamically doing
that have you have you talked with any
of the folks
in in kind of that space about these
sorts of default
integrations for so we've been spending
most of our time talking to the creators
themselves
um because they're the ones most
interested in this problem
um the exchanges and the platforms
uh are right now just kind of
subsidizing the problem
so uh which is a good good business
model for them
however not everybody goes through the
platforms and
as i mentioned as soon as the data sets
start getting bigger and bigger and
bigger that are being exchanged
they might not want to subsidize this um
but
so they haven't ran into the problem the
way we have uh
that's kind of a a curse i guess of
pinata is
since we've always been charging people
we've
always had these conversations whereas
on other
um on the the main nft platforms
they just kind of include it as a as a
service or
just include it to make their service
run better
um so we've talked with all of them um
the platforms don't necessarily
uh see the problem yet but the creators
definitely do
so all the people that are out there
creating tokens and these are these are
typically non-technical people
or you know they might have a little bit
of technical background but not a ton
and so this is where that url versus cid
conversation becomes extremely important
because they understand that point they
understand that their
their hard working data set their asset
whatever they're creating digital
artwork
um can change on them and that's not
good for business essentially for them
especially as if you think about them as
content creators
that kind of undermines what they're
actually selling so that's where
ipfs really comes in and and saves the
day for them
that's awesome um question in the chat
um paid collaborative pins so
things like um multiple organizations
can all help
fund and persist things is that
something you guys have have pushed on
much um so yeah we have a blog post
from like two years ago where we touch
on that and how do you share
actually pinning costs and that's
something that
certainly we feel is going to happen
we haven't quite figured out how to make
it happen yet but it has
been in our minds for over two years of
how do you make that happen
we get the question a lot with dows but
you can even see it
you could you could expand that up to
enterprise
you know corporations they may not
actually want to
fully pay for something and if they can
split that cost with other
organizations that's pretty powerful and
i was actually at a
meet up recently where a cloud provider
because of
blockchain had to totally change
their their pricing
to allow for sharing of infrastructure
costs between
different organizations so we're
actually already seeing this
type of thing happen and ipfs is just
really really well positioned for it
because of the cid
that's awesome question from cody um do
you see falcoin or a falcon ethereum
bridge
fitting in with this problem yeah
absolutely
i mean um as long as you can
have a content addressable piece of data
um
that works perfectly fine and you're
still going to have the same exact
problem even
uh you know filecoin will definitely
lower the price um but there's still
going to be that kind of tension between
the buyer and the seller of of who's
actually responsible for the data
so you'll be able to definitely use
filecoin in this situation
awesome another question biggest
challenge working with ipvs
in your infra or surfing data
uh i would probably let matt actually
take that one
[Music]
if you can find him somewhere in there
go for it matt i can just bless you with
speaking
okay perfect guys um yeah i'd say
the biggest the biggest problem is just
kind of been like uh
playing on the the bleeding edge of
something so ipfs has been
you know you guys have been seeing 30x
growth every year
you know we've been seeing similar kind
of along that same trajectory
um the uh
the biggest challenges i just working
with large data sets
um i think garbage collection is one
i've talked a lot with your team about
um serving data has actually been fairly
easy
i saw that mentioned by one the gateways
do a pretty good job of that so props to
your team for that um
tooling make lives easier better
as in for providers um i i'd say that
the the initial ones would probably be
like
content tracking so you know how um
you know how are how is your data being
served how many times is a piece of data
being served
you know where is it going that kind of
stuff has been uh
something we've been thinking about
doing ourselves but just haven't really
quite got the bandwidth for yet
yeah yeah molly you hit that yeah it's
one of those areas where you know
we we very much felt the need to build
build our own
analytics tooling for ipfs we're like
great we need to make all of these major
improvements to the dht
we need something that helps us validate
we're making it better and actually lets
us run all these benchmarks
i can imagine the exact same thing is
from a pending service perspective where
you want that those analytics like the
logging
the metrics that you can look at your
service and optimize and quantify
the performance you're offering your
users
question from thomas do you have much
interaction with buyers of assets if
they own the assets shouldn't they carry
the responsibility to ensure its
continued existence
um so we haven't interacted with the
buyers
um that much specifically just the
creators
um but we don't really see it as our
responsibility to
insert ourselves into that negotiation
they can figure out whether the seller's
responsible or the buyers are
responsible or the exchange in between
is responsible
um we're not too concerned about that
conversation
uh the only thing we are concerned about
is making
sure people understand uh what's
actually happening
and setting up the framework to you know
start that conversation because
the friction that we want to reduce is
how difficult
it is for those those buyers and sellers
to actually interact
around making sure that the data will
exist um
so to us we haven't interacted with the
buyers uh
you know we probably uh will in the
future but
um to us it's not uh you know a huge
um thing that we want to actually focus
on we just want to make sure that
they have the ability to actually have
that conversation
awesome yeah i will say like i remember
going to my um
my three box wallet and it was like
there were the
the ens domains that i purchased i was
like oh great like these appear here by
default
you could also imagine every um every
file or transaction that i've committed
um like i would i have a um an interest
and those being
persisted having really easy plug-ins to
you know with my local pinning service
account make sure all of that continues
existing without a lot of work on my
part
make my life a ton easier yep
all right one more question in the chat
and then we will transition over
to chain safe um how
are folks seeing the main dap use cases
evolve things like storing front ends
nfts what kind of dapps are being stored
um
storing end user data what are what are
people seeing open question too so
kyle you got you and mac get a first
crack but if other people have a hand
just say it in the chat and i'll meet
you yeah i mean
um the majority of the use cases
um are just making sure
that they have proof of what that data
looked like or has looked like in the
past
so whether it's a small piece of data or
a large piece of data they have that
cid record somewhere uh and can prove it
um and this is big in supply chain cases
um it's big in whether it's it's digital
assets or physical assets
and even things like iot where you're
you're feeding data and you need to make
sure that that
data can go across multiple
multiple different infrastructures or
different clouds and using ipfs to
ensure that that data is not changing
and ultimately just trusting the data
itself
and not trusting pinata or any other
pinning service
that's the most powerful thing that ipfs
is doing and how we see a lot of these
dapps
actually using ipfs